Good afternoon, everyone.
I'm Doug Davidson,
and I'm here to talk to
you about text processing.
We've worked hard to bring you an
extensive toolkit for analyzing text
because we know that all our devices
now have lots of text on them,
and we think that your applications
can give a better user experience if
they understand a little something
about the content of that text.
So what we're going to do is first
go through how text is represented
and its structure and some of the
basic APIs for iterating through it.
And then we're going to talk
about the pieces of this toolkit,
things like regular expressions,
data detectors, linguistic APIs,
text checking.
And then we'll have some demos and
sample code to put it all together.
Now, I remember when I started out in
this business a long time ago,
string handling looked a
little something like this.
Everything was ASCII C strings.
Well, those days are long gone.
Our text is Unicode now.
And no matter what system
and platform you're using,
chances are that there is an
API that deals with strings
as sequences of UTF-16.
And NSString is no exception.
Conceptually, an NSString is a
sequence of UTF-16 units,
what we call unicars.
So there's a great temptation
to think that these are really
just like the old C strings,
except that the character
is a little wider.
And that the right thing to do is to use
the same string to do the same thing.
And that's why we used to go and
iterate through character by character.
But really,
that is not the way that Unicode works.
Let me show you.
Let's take a look at some
text to start off with.
So here's a simple piece of text.
And as we look at it,
we notice that it has some structure.
So this text is composed of
a sequence of paragraphs.
And each paragraph is
composed of sentences.
And then the sentences in
turn are composed of words.
And then the words in turn are
composed of what I'm going to
call user visible characters.
And none of these things,
not even the user visible characters,
can be directly identified
with the individual unicars.
They're all ranges of
unicars in the text.
Let me go back to the slides
and say why that's so.
So these user visible
characters are actually,
in general, character clusters.
The official Unicode term for
this is a graphene cluster.
Sometimes in API we refer to this
as composed character sequences.
This is a very characteristic
feature of Unicode,
and that is that multiple Unicars
can go to making up what is a
single user visible character.
So I don't know if you noticed in
that example text that I had there,
but in the word San Jose,
there's an accented E.
And that is actually not one Unicare,
it's two,
an E with a combining accent mark.
And that is just the very
simplest example of sequences of
characters that combine to form
a single user visible character.
There are much more complicated examples.
I show one in Korean.
However, it happens all the time.
In Vietnamese.
There are very complicated
sequences where you have multiple
Unicars that combine to form
a single user visible character.
And in addition to this,
we have surrogate pairs.
Anything in Unicode that goes
beyond the basic multilingual plane,
that is beyond the first 64K characters,
is going to be represented
not by a single UTF-16 unit,
but by two.
It's called the surrogate pair.
And... This is not just
some abstract thing.
This is a very practical issue.
And the characters beyond the
first 64K include things like
cuneiform and hieroglyphics,
but it's not limited to that.
If you're dealing with Chinese text,
you'll often see characters
that require surrogate pairs.
We now have emoji
available for everybody.
And most of the emoji characters are also
beyond the basic multilingual plane and
are going to require surrogate pairs.
So in all these cases,
we have more than one character.
We have more than one Unicare that goes
to make a single user visible character.
And you can't split these up
when you're processing them.
They have to stay together.
You don't want to divide
the E from its accent.
You definitely can't divide the
two halves with surrogate pairs.
So when we go through these,
we can't deal with the
individual Unicars.
We have to deal in general
with ranges of Unicars.
So if we can't use that simple for loop,
how do we do that?
How can we iterate through the text?
Well, we have a device that seems as if
it was made for text processing,
and that is blocks.
So what we provide is a block
iteration API on NSString.
Enumerate substrings in range.
And we specify how it is
that we want to enumerate.
In this case,
we're choosing to enumerate by
composed character sequences,
that is,
by these user visible characters.
characters.
And what this API does
is to call your block,
the block that you provide here,
once for each of these in the range
of the string that you asked for.
And then you can do
whatever it is you want.
The block -- your block gets
passed in the range that
it's supposed to deal with,
and you can do whatever you want with it.
This example code was taken
directly from the app that I showed,
and all it's doing is to add a
color to that piece of the text.
and I chose to do alternating
colors to make it evident.
So, for example, in this string,
your block, if you call this,
would be called once
for the first character,
then the next, and so on, and so on,
and so on, and so on, and so forth,
until you get to this one that
is not a single unit character,
but two, and it would be passed in the
range for that one as well.
We can do the same thing with words.
And words are an appropriate processing
unit for many different tasks,
things like uppercasing,
recognition of words, spellchecking,
and correction.
One thing to keep in mind with
words is that not all languages
separate their words by whitespace.
So you can't rely on whitespace as
an indicator of word boundaries.
So we have, again,
an API that will deal with this.
Also in these cases, for example,
it's the same API with
a different constant,
enumeration by words.
So if you call this enumeration with
an enumeration by words constant,
then your block, again,
will be called once for each word in the
range of the string that you asked for.
For example, in this string,
it would call for the first word,
second word, so on and so on.
And in each case,
it will be passed in the range
of that word in the text.
And you can do with it whatever you want.
Same thing for other units
like sentences and paragraphs.
Paragraphs are important because
they're in some sense the maximal
unit for Unicode processing.
None of the Unicode algorithms
require you to go beyond
the bounds of a paragraph.
In some cases they might have
effect on the whole paragraph,
for example, for bi-die processing.
Some features in bi-die processing
affect the whole paragraph.
So again, it will be just the same
API that you can call to iterate
through paragraph by paragraph.
And your block in this case will
be called once for each paragraph
with the range of the paragraph.
And one useful pattern is to nest these.
So you could go through your
text first by paragraphs and
then within the paragraph by
some smaller unit as necessary.
Now, of course,
block iteration is wonderful,
but it's not the only thing
that you want to do with text.
So there are many other APIs on NSString.
For example,
the range of string APIs are the
Unicode-savvy way for finding an instance
of a string within a piece of text.
In this case,
I've chosen to look for a string resume,
or maybe the string that
I'm matching is resume,
because I've chosen as options to
include not only case-insensitive search,
but also diacritic-insensitive search.
So this search will find that string,
whether it has diacritics on it or not.
And this is a very powerful API that
can be used for many kinds of locating
of substrings within a string.
If I add one additional
parameter to the options,
I can, instead of looking for
that string in the text,
I can choose to decide whether I have
matched it at a particular location.
That's the anchored search option.
And that doesn't go looking
through the entire string.
It just looks at the start of the
range that I specify and says,
is that string there or not?
And this will match it in a
fully Unicode-savvy way with all
the options that I specified,
so it will ignore differences of case,
differences of diacritics.
In this case,
I've chosen also to ignore the
difference between the half-width
and full-width characters.
And if what I want is not
just to see does it match,
but also to see is it
a comparison result,
is it before or after in a sort order,
I use the compare API on a string.
And that returns a comparison
result with all the same options.
And there are many other APIs on
NSString for deciding whether
a word has a -- a string has
a given prefix or suffix.
If you want to look for
characters from a character set
instead of a specific string,
you can do that.
And none of these APIs, you'll notice,
mention individual unicars.
They're all Unicode savvy,
so they deal with ranges
of text in the string.
And they find it in a
Unicode conformant way.
One other set of methods I want
to mention is our powerful
search and replace methods,
where you can find all instances
of a specific string and replace
them with something else.
And we have two variants of that.
One that if you have an immutable
string that will change it
and return a modified copy.
And another one that will take a
mutable string and change it in place.
Okay, so that's a very simple set
of text processing operations.
But maybe we wanted to do something
a little more sophisticated.
Maybe instead of finding
all words in the text,
I wanted to find, say,
all words that begin with "th."
Or maybe I wanted to find all
the URLs in this piece of text.
Or perhaps what I wanted to
do was to find all of the
nouns in this piece of text.
Or maybe all the adjectives.
Or maybe what I wanted to do was to find
all the names in this piece of text.
[Transcript missing]
We make this available via a
class called NSRegularExpression.
This is available in Mac OS X with
Lion on iOS starting with iOS 4.
And NSRegularExpression represents
a compiled regular expression.
You create one,
a regular expression object,
by passing in a regular
expression pattern.
So here's a contrived little example
of a regular expression pattern.
It finds -- first of all,
there's a backslash B,
which finds a word boundary.
Of course,
the backslash has to be escaped
with another backslash because
it appears in a string constant.
Then there's a
parenthesized subexpression,
which locates an I or an O.
Another parenthesized subexpression,
Another parenthesized
subexpression finds an F or an N,
and then another slash
B for a word boundary.
So what this does is to locate
two-letter words that start
with I or O and end with F or N.
The option I've chosen to use here
is the case insensitive option.
So this will find these two-letter words,
whether they're lowercase or
uppercase or any combination.
Pretty simple.
So what are we going to do
with this regular expression
object once we've created it?
Well, naturally, the thing to do is to
get a block iteration.
And that is the basic API on
this regular expression.
Enumerate matches in string goes
through and calls the block that
you supply for each match of that
regular expression in the range of
the string that you're targeting.
And then, again, once -- in your block,
you can do whatever it is you
need to do with that match
of the regular expression.
So, for example, for this string,
it would be called once
for the first match,
the second match, the third.
and so on and so on.
[Transcript missing]
So, for example,
that particular regular expression
I demonstrated has two capture groups.
So what we could do is in our
block when it gets called,
we can find, first of all,
the overall range of the match.
And then the range of
the first capture group,
that's that first sub-expression,
which is just the first
letter in this case.
And then the range of
the second capture group,
in this case just the second letter.
And then once we have that,
we have everything that there
is to know about the match
of that regular expression.
And we can do whatever
it is we want to with it.
Now, again, as I say,
block iterations are wonderful,
but they're not the only thing.
We have convenience methods
if what you want to do is,
let us say, find all the matches of your
regular expression as an array,
or just count them,
or just find the first one,
or maybe all you need is
the range of the first one.
So if you just want to find the
range of the first match of the
regular expression in the string,
one line of code, you get it,
and you've found where
the first match is.
We also have a very common
operation with regular expressions,
that is find and replace.
And again, just like with NSString,
we have one method for immutable
strings that will take it
and return a modified copy,
and one method for mutable strings
that will modify it in place.
Now, the thing that we're replacing
with for a regular expression case,
it could be a literal string,
but in general,
it is a template that can include
these meta variables like $0,
$1, $2, where $0 represents the overall
match of the regular expression.
$1 is match for the first capture group.
$2, second capture group.
This is very typical for regular
expression find and replace.
So here I chose to do $2, $1,
that is the second capture group,
followed by the first.
So if you're familiar
with regular expressions,
you probably know what this
is going to do to this string.
It's just going to change the
order of the letters in each
of these two-letter words.
Now,
if you're going to use it more than once,
it's more efficient to
create an NSRegularExpression
object and hold onto it.
They're convenient, they're fast,
they're thread safe.
But if all you want to
do is one operation,
we have some convenience
methods on NSString.
You don't have to create a regular
expression object yourself.
But this is not new API.
It's just the same old API range
of string with a new option,
NSRegularExpressionSearch,
that causes the thing you're looking for
to be treated as a regular expression
pattern instead of a literal string.
And likewise, you can use the basic
string search and replace.
and the NIS regular
expression search option,
which tells it to treat the thing you're
looking for as a regular expression
pattern and the thing you're replacing
with as a regular expression template.
All right.
Suppose we want to go a little further
and look not for a regular expression,
but suppose we're looking for
something like a URL or a phone number.
Now,
people sometimes do try to use regular
expressions for this sort of thing,
which is maybe okay if you're
just looking for a single pattern,
say a single pattern of phone numbers.
But once you try to
look for multiple ones,
it starts to get complicated
and expensive quickly.
Fortunately, we have something better,
and that is Apple technology
called data detectors,
which locates interesting
things like URLs,
phone numbers, dates,
addresses in a large,
large variety of international formats.
And it does so very efficiently,
much more efficiently than
regular expressions could do it.
And so you may be familiar with
this from the UI context where
data detectors locates things
in the text you're looking at.
And, you know,
provides a way to do something
useful quickly with them,
like show a location on a map.
But what we're talking about
here is the API version of this,
low-level API, foundation-level API,
which we expose by a class that's
just a subclass of NS regular
expression called NSData detector,
again, available on --
Mac OS X Lion, and on iOS,
starting with iOS 4.
So NSDataDetector is a subclass,
as I said, of NSRegularExpression.
And you create an NSDataDetector,
but not with a regular
expression pattern.
You create it instead by specifying
which kinds of data detector types
you want this detector to find.
In this case, I've chosen the link type,
which finds URLs,
and the phone number type,
which finds phone numbers.
There are a bunch of different types.
You can look for any or all of dates,
addresses, URLs, phone numbers,
et cetera.
And since this is subclass
of NS regular expression,
the basic API, again,
is a block iterator.
For example, on this text,
your block would be called first
with the first thing it finds,
a phone number here,
second with the second thing it finds,
a URL.
Now,
this is the point at which we get very
glad that we used a match object in our
regular expression API because now this
match object can carry all sorts of other
interesting properties that are useful
when you find a data detector type.
For example, if what you found is a date,
there's a date property that can
get that date as a parsed date.
If it's an address,
there's a components property
that gets all the different
components of the address.
If it's a URL, you can get it as a URL.
Phone number,
there's a phone number property.
And here's where we use the result
type for our NSText checking type
object that expresses the match.
And that will tell us what
type it is that was found.
So, for example,
this -- the data detector that I created
here finds two different types of things.
And so we need to distinguish,
did we find -- was it a link type?
That is, was it a URL that's found?
If so, we can get the URL from
that match object.
or maybe it was a phone
number that was found,
in which case we can get the phone
number from the object and then do
with it whatever we need to do with it.
Again, there are convenience methods
if you don't want to iterate
through all the matches,
if you just want to get them all as an
array or count them or find the first
one or the range of the first one.
If you just want to find
the range of the first one,
it's a single line of code like this.
Okay, so that's data detectors.
Now, suppose we want to go
a little deeper and,
um,
We want to find out something
linguistic about our text.
So we have a new API for that,
which is new in Mac OS X Lion and iOS 5,
called linguistic tagging.
And so the basic premise of
linguistic tagging is that we take
a piece of text and we divide it
up into pieces that we call tokens.
And then there are various layers of
linguistic information that we might
want to find out about this text.
So the most basic and trivial
is what kind of token is this?
Is this a word?
Is this white space?
Is it punctuation?
Okay, that's pretty obvious.
But there are many others.
For example, we might want to find out
what language is this text in?
And we have a statistical model
that will tell us as best it can
what language this text is in,
not currently at the
individual word level,
but definitely the paragraph level,
and we'll return that.
And going a little deeper,
we might want to find out what
part of speech these words are.
And again, we have a statistical language
model that will tell us,
to the best of its ability,
what part of speech is of the word
as it is used in this context.
So there are a number of
these different layers.
We refer to these -- the
layers as tag schemes,
and the individual pieces of
information they return are called tags.
So the simplest ones are the basic type,
that is,
word or white space or punctuation,
et cetera.
The language, that's returned as a
standard language tag,
like EN or FR or DE, so forth.
What script is the text in?
Latin script, Cyrillic, Arabic, Chinese,
what have you.
All of these things are available
for many different languages and
scripts on both Mac OS X and iOS.
The more sophisticated tag schemes are,
first of all, parts of speech,
what we call in technical
terms lexical class,
Is this word as used in context,
is it a noun or verb or
adjective or what have you?
Then we have named entity recognition,
which finds out whether a piece
of text looks like it's you
being used in context as a name,
and moreover,
does it look like it's a personal name
or a place name or an organization name?
And also we have what we call the lemma.
That is, if we know this word,
we can give you the root form of the
word without any inflectional suffixes,
so forth, if that's available.
Now, these are more sophisticated,
and they're not available
for all languages on Lion.
We have lexical class
and lemmas for English,
French, and German.
We have named entity
recognition for English.
On the version of iOS 5 you have now,
currently, all these things are
available only for English.
So how does this work?
So we have the class NSLinguisticTagger.
That is the interface for all of this.
And you create an
NSLinguisticTagger object.
By specifying a set of schemes.
And so in this case,
I've chosen that I want to be able to
get out the basic token type scheme.
I want the lexical class scheme
that gives me parts of speech.
And I want the name type
scheme that gives me names.
Once you have your tagger,
then you take the string that
you want to analyze and you
attach that string to the tagger.
This is important because the linguistic
tagger keeps a bunch of state about
that string so that it only has to
analyze a particular piece of it once,
no matter how many times you ask.
And then, of course,
I think you can guess what
the basic API is for it.
It's a block iteration.
Enumerate tags in range.
You tell the tagger,
Go through this range of my string and
tell me for each token in the string what
the tag is for in the particular scheme.
So in this case,
I'm using the lexical class scheme,
so it will tell me the parts of
speech for each of these tokens.
And it passes in that tag and the
range of the token and also the range
of the sentence within which it lives.
And then I can take a look at it and
do whatever it is I need to do with it.
For example, if it's a noun,
do something with it.
This code is taken directly
from that app that I showed.
Again, block iteration is not the only
thing you might want to do,
so we have some additional
methods if you just want to find
the tag for a particular token,
or if you want to get the tags
for a set of tokens as an array.
We also have methods for that.
So if you just want to find out
what is the part of speech for this
particular word here at this index,
you call this method and
it gets back that tag.
Now, we use this for a number
of different things.
We use it to assist with
auto-correction for dictionary
lookup and things like that.
If you're concerned about performance,
one thing I might mention
is currently on Lion,
we're doing this essentially
full-time for the text you
type to help in correcting it.
But I'm sure that there are plenty of
other potential applications for this
that we haven't thought up yet and
that you may be able to come up with.
But right now,
I'd like to bring up my colleague
Jennifer Moore to show one
particular demo application.
Hi.
This demo is a sample application
of how we can use these
linguistic APIs to provide a more
visually compelling experience
of the text in our application.
I have a set of biographies
of some of the top trending
artists on iTunes right now.
And what I want to do is...
What I want to do is use the
linguistic tagger to extract the
most frequent words out of these
texts and send it to the user in
the form of a nice big word cloud.
So we get a nice visual look
at the content of our data.
So to do that, it's very simple.
We're going to start...
First, we start by initializing
our linguistic tagger,
as you showed before,
with a set of tag schemes.
And for now,
we're going to start off with
a lexical class tag scheme and
also the name type tag scheme.
And then for each one of our biographies,
it's very simple.
This is the core of our work here.
For each of our texts,
we're going to associate that
text with our NSLinguisticTagger,
with set string.
And then we're going to use
our block API to iterate over
all the words in our text.
So we call enumerate tags in
range with our text range.
And for our purposes,
we're going to use a lexical class
tag scheme because for our word cloud,
we don't really want
words like of and the.
These are kind of boring words.
What we really want are
all the nouns of the text.
These are the words that convey
the most information in our text.
So what we're going to do is if
the word type is of the type noun,
we're going to extract that word from
our text and add it to our set of tags.
And then we're going to use
our block API to iterate over
all the words in our text.
And add it to our set of words
with the corresponding count.
Keeping track of the count.
And the rest of it is just getting
the most frequent words out of our
set and displaying it in the view,
which I'm not going to show here,
but it's pretty straightforward.
So all we just do now is build and run.
and now we have a nice word
cloud of these are all the most
frequent words of our text.
And you see the words
that kind of pop out.
Music, pop is kind of the genre of music
that's most popular right now.
But, you know,
if we're looking at biographies,
these are biographies of people,
and actually it wouldn't be interesting
if we could look at all the names
across our text and maybe capture
some of the relationships of artists
who are influenced by other artists,
maybe.
So we can do that.
And the change is very simple.
We go back to our code here.
Instead of
NSLinguisticTagSchemeLexicalClass,
let's just do name type.
And if we're looking at names,
sometimes names can have multiple
tokens as part of the name.
So we have an option for that.
It would be nice to have one
range for the entire name.
So we can use this option here.
and his linguistic tagger join names.
And then instead of nouns here,
we're going to look for, let's say,
all the personal names.
And that's it.
That's all the change
that we have to make.
So we run this again.
And now these are all the names
across all of our biographies.
And you see Alanis Morissette was not
one of the biographies we're looking at,
but she influenced a lot of musicians.
So that's our word cloud.
Now, I think we said earlier that
these APIs are cross-platform,
so I just want to show that to you now.
Almost the exact same code.
Although not quite as flashy,
but... So we have all the words,
all the nouns in our text,
and we can also get all
of the names in our text.
and that's linguistic
tagging on iOS and Mac OS X.
[Transcript missing]
So now what I want to do is to go
on to the piece of this that is
-- has available similar APIs on
iOS and Mac OS X but not identical
because these APIs are at the
UI level in AppKit or UIKit.
And this is text checking,
which is represented by a spell
checker on Mac OS X in AppKit and
UI text checker in UIKit on iOS.
And this does a number
of different things,
but the most significant and important
thing is it does spell checking.
and the various UI text editing
widgets on both platforms all
use it already by default,
but we also make it available
to you as an API so you can
use it wherever you need it.
So NSSpellChecker.
NSSpellChecker in AppKit,
the way this is organized is that
there's a single shared spellchecker
object for the whole application,
and you can just get it.
And then you can ask it to do
some checking of a piece of text.
And actually NSSpellChecker will check
for a number of different things.
It can look for misspelled words.
It can look for potential
grammar mistakes.
It can find corrections to the text.
It can do smart quotes, smart dashes,
and it also does the text replacement,
which is a sort of shortcut type
feature where you type a piece of
text and it gets replaced by something
else that they don't know about.
And it's a very simple process
that the user has specified.
And the way that it works,
unfortunately we don't yet have a
neat block iteration API for this.
You call it and you get back an array of,
again, NSTextCheckingResult objects.
You specify what kinds of types
of things you want it to look for.
And then you get this array back
of results and you can go through
the results and for each one,
again, you can look at the result type,
the result range,
and see what kind of thing it is that
it found and what the range is and
possibly other attributes to tell you
what you might want to do with it.
There is also a separate API.
This is a synchronous API.
There's also a separate asynchronous
API where you can call and get
results back at some later point.
point when they might be available.
So, for example,
if you were looking for misspelled
words in this piece of text,
you would get back two different results,
and you would go through them one by one,
and it would tell you what the
range of each is in the text.
As I say,
there are different kinds of things
that a spellchecker will check for:
spelling errors,
possible grammar mistakes,
straight quotes that might be
substituted smartly by curly quotes,
same thing for dashes,
the text replacements,
and potential corrections.
That is not the only
API on a spellchecker.
There are also specific methods for
doing things like spellchecking.
If you want to go through and find the
first misspelled word in a range of text,
this call will do it.
If you have a misspelled word
and you want to find out what
the spellchecker wants to suggest
as possible alternatives for it,
you can get several different
alternatives by calling
calling guesses for word range.
If you want to find the
single proposed correction,
if any,
you can call a correction for word range.
And there is also, as I mentioned,
the UI text editing objects
like NSTextView and WebView will
automatically use NSSpellChecker to do
spellchecking and correction and so on.
And they all have some API that
allow you to turn on and off all
these different facilities on
a specific view-by-view basis.
The user can also turn them on and off.
So there are user preferences
available for these things as well.
And in addition, at NSTextView level,
you can customize all this
by overriding the methods
NSTextView has to call NSSpellChecker
and to get the results back.
So you can customize
it in any way you want.
Something that you may have seen on
Mac OS X Lion is that we have a new
UI for autocorrection that is very
similar to the iOS autocorrection UI.
This is something new that we provide,
and it is implemented both,
and as TextView and WebView will
automatically use this if
autocorrection is turned on.
But as I say,
it can be turned on and off per view,
or the user can decide whether
or not to use it globally.
But if you have your own TextView,
we also have APIs that allow
you to bring up these correction
indicators as well if you need to.
So there's an API to show one
of the correction indicators,
also one to dismiss it,
and also there's the record response
API where you tell the spellchecker,
"Did the user accept this correction,
or did they refuse it,
or did they go back and edit it and
revert it?" So that the spellchecker
can learn from the user's behavior
and customize its autocorrections and
not do the ones the user doesn't want.
On the iOS side,
there is UI Text Checker,
which provides spellchecking.
It doesn't yet do a number of the
other things that a spellchecker does.
It uses a slightly different model.
So for UI Text Checker,
you don't use a single shared instance.
You create a new instance for each
document that you want to check.
Create one.
Then UI Text Checker has the basic sort
of API where you go through a piece of
text and find the first misspelled word.
And you call it again to go through
and find the next misspelled word.
And again,
once you have found a misspelled word,
then you can ask what are the possible
correction alternatives that you
might want to suggest to the user.
These are the sorts of things
you would see if you tap on
a misspelled word in iOS.
You get some alternatives
to correct it to.
And those are the sorts of things
that this API would provide.
[Transcript missing]
This demo is perhaps not
quite as flashy as Jennifer's,
but I chose it because it provides a
good example of how to use all these
different pieces in the toolkit together.
And so what this application does is
it takes a piece of text and it does a
specific kind of capitalization on it,
the sort of capitalization you
would expect if you're going
to show something as a title.
Sometimes it's called headline style.
So I enter the text in
the old capitalization,
and it comes out with
certain words capitalized.
Now, the rules for headline style,
if you look in the style manuals,
they're kind of complicated and fussy.
And in some cases --
even just for English.
I'm doing this only for
English here as a demo.
They generally depend on not just
what word it is or how long it is,
but also what part of speech the
word is and even how it's being used,
what part of speech it's
being used as in the text.
So, for example,
most of the long words get capitalized.
Some of the short words
don't get capitalized,
but usually it's just things like
the articles and prepositions.
The verbs like "is" will be
capitalized even though they're short.
And there are a number of
other twists and turns.
So let's see.
This has a few other features.
So, for example,
this particular app knows how to
capitalize things like iPhone and iCloud.
So you notice that the first word
of a title is always capitalized,
even if it would otherwise not be.
So "on" is capitalized as the first word,
even though it's not when it
appears in the middle of the text.
But if I were going to do something
like make this a parenthesized,
and the other folks at Microsoft.
I'm going to show you how to analyze
text in a wide range of ways.
and you notice I have also
done some nice smart quoting,
so I convert the straight
quotes into curly quotes.
and one last thing to show is I have
a little quote from Shakespeare here.
And you'll notice that the word
"on" in this quote is capitalized.
It was not capitalized in these previous
[Transcript missing]
and you could combine them in other
ways if you had different sets of rules.
So this Titleizer is going to
make use of a linguistic tagger.
So the first thing I do when I create it
is I create myself a linguistic tagger.
And the tag scheme I've chosen to use is
our -- one I haven't mentioned before.
This is our top-level tag scheme.
Name, type, or lexical class.
So this will tell you -- if it's a name,
it'll tell you what kind of name it is.
If it's not,
it'll tell you what part of speech it is.
And I'm also going to use a data
detector for finding URLs because,
you know, I don't want to go and change
in capitalization of URLs.
That doesn't really make sense.
So I'll find the URLs in it.
And I'm going to use a
mutable index set with that,
and I'll show you that in a minute.
This is the external API for this, title,
string for string.
And so basically the first thing
I'm going to do is associate my
string with my tagger so I can
get tagging results for it.
And as I said,
I'm going to do this just for English,
so I'm going to tell the linguistic
tagger to treat the text as English.
If I don't do this,
the tagger will try to identify
the language of the text,
but here I want to
treat it all as English.
And then I'm going to
find URLs in the text,
and what I'm going to do is determine
where the URLs are and use my
mutable index set to record all
the indexes of URLs in the string
and just leave all those alone.
So I just use the enumerate matches
in string API for my data detector.
Whenever I get a result,
I add those indexes to
my mutable index set.
So now I know where all
the URLs are in this text.
Now I'm going to go through
the text word by word.
This is the numerate substrings and range
API that I mentioned before going through
by words.
Now, as I mentioned,
and as you saw in Jennifer's example,
the linguistic tagger will
also iterate through text.
But one thing to keep in mind
is that the linguistic tagger
analyzes text on a linguistic basis.
So in particular,
for words like in English like "can't"
and "won't" and "should have" that are
actually two words smashed together,
the linguistic tagger
will separate those.
But for casing operations,
what I want to do work with is
the actual words and go word by
word as they are in the text.
So I'm going to enumerate by word
and then I'm going to ask the tagger
individually what it thinks the
part of speech is for those words.
And another thing I can find out from
the tagger is the range of sentences in
the text because I want to capitalize,
in this case, the first and last words
of any whole sentence.
I'm sorry.
Another thing to keep in mind is
that in addition to the words,
there's also space stuff
in between the words,
which might be white space, punctuation,
et cetera.
And I want to do something with that,
too.
Now, one thing to keep in mind about this
enumerate substrings and range API is
that it actually passes in two ranges.
One is the substring range,
that's the range of the
thing you're looking at.
And there's also the enclosing range,
which includes all the other parts
of the text between -- in this case,
between the words.
And it's designed so that the
enclosing ranges will completely
partition the text with no overlap.
So the enclosing range will include
for the first word all the text
before the first word and the
text after it to the next word.
And then for subsequent words,
it will include all the text
after the words as well.
So first I'm going to take a look at
and analyze the text before the word,
if there is any,
and the text after the word.
And I'll go through
that in just a moment.
And that will help me -- so
one thing I'm going to do
there is do these smart quotes,
for example.
And then I'd take a look at
the text before the word.
And so if this word is the
first word of the text,
Or if it's the last word of the text,
or if it's the last word of the sentence,
Or if the non-word text before
it had something like an opening
parenthesis or an opening quote,
or if the text after it had
something like a closing parenthesis,
a closing quote,
then I definitely want to capitalize it.
No matter what part of speech it is.
And then I call this string
for word range method that
does the actual cuts of it.
So let's take a look at that.
So the main thing I do
here is I ask the tagger,
what part of speech is this word?
I'm also going to ask the spellchecker,
do you have a correction for this word?
Now, we're not going to try to
correct all spelling errors here.
We're just going to try to correct
those that are case errors,
like not capitalizing P in iPhone.
So I want to decide whether
this word should be capitalized.
If it was the first or
last word of a sentence,
et cetera, as determined before, yes,
I want to capitalize it.
Otherwise, if it's a conjunction,
like and, or, or a preposition,
like of and to,
then my style manual said that
those should be capitalized
only if they're long,
only if they're greater
than four characters.
If it's a determiner or particle,
like an article,
"A," "A" or "The," it should
be capitalized unless it is
one of these specific words,
"A" and "The" or "To."
Those are my style rules.
If your style rules are different,
you could express them in
similar ways with these tools.
Otherwise, we want to capitalize it.
Now we know where we
want to capitalize it,
but we still need to check,
is it part of a URL?
If it's part of a URL,
just leave it alone.
If we had a case correction
for it from the spellchecker,
that is, if the spellchecker's
correction is the same as our
original word except for case,
that's this case-insensitive compare,
then I use the spellchecker's version
for things like iPhone and iPad.
Otherwise, if I think it should be
capitalized and it's not,
capitalize it.
Otherwise, if I don't think it should
be capitalized and it is,
lowercase it.
And then one more thing.
Remember I mentioned the string by
replacing occurrences of string method.
I'm going to take any apostrophes that
happen to lie in the middle of this word
and replace them with curly apostrophes.
And that gives me my result for the word.
And now let me take a look at what
happened with those interword ranges.
So the text in between the words,
here I'm going to use the tagger
and use the tagger's enumeration.
You might have some white space and some
punctuation and some more white space,
say.
And I'm going to go through
these piece by piece.
Remember that the tagger stores
the information about the text.
And so no matter how many times I ask,
it's only going to evaluate
that piece of text once.
So I go through and find
out what that token is.
And if it is a single quote,
the tagger will tell me whether it's
an open quote or a closed quote.
If it's an open quote,
I'm going to replace it
with a curly open quote,
otherwise a curly closed quote.
Likewise for a double quote,
it will tell me whether it thinks
it's an open quote or a closed quote.
And I replace it with a curly
open or closed quote accordingly.
If the tagger tells me
this is white space,
what I've chosen to do here
is replace all the white
space with just single space.
I'm going to condense
down all the white space.
Otherwise, I just pass it through
and leave it alone.
And so that puts together all of
these different techniques for
analyzing text and shows them
working together in a single example.
Now, this example is a bit complicated,
so I think what we're going
to try to do is make this
available as a developer example.
It's not up yet.
But we'll try to make this available as
a developer example so you can review it.
You should keep in mind, though,
that this is not to be considered
as a be-all and end-all of
rules for capitalization.
This is one specific
set of style manuals.
Different style manuals have
slightly different notions of
what should be capitalized.
So let me summarize.
The way we want to encourage you to
analyze text is by looking for ranges
within the text that are of interest and
to deal with the text range by range.
And the primary method that we make
available for this is block iteration,
iterating over blocks that
specify ranges of a specific type.
And we have different types
of block iteration for
different kinds of analysis.
The basic analysis provided by NSString,
more sophisticated types provided by
regular expressions or data detectors,
and the linguistic analysis
provided by NSLinguisticTagger,
plus text checking at the UI level for
things like spell checking and so forth.
And that concludes our
discussion of text analysis.
For more information,
you can contact our evangelist,
Bill Dudney.
There's documentation, developer.avl.com.
Not all of this probably
has documentation yet.
Specifically in this linguistic tagger,
I know the documentation
is under development,
may not be there quite yet.
You can look at -- I've been
informed that the latest foundation
release notes have been released
and should be available to you.
And those include some more
information on all of these APIs.
and other people.
Related sessions,
you may have gone to the What's New in
Cocoa and What's New in Cocoa Touch where
they review things like some of the
UI implications of some of these things.
Tomorrow,
there's an internationalization talk
on making your application ready for
international markets tomorrow at
10:15 that I encourage you to go to.
And that concludes the presentation.